# Local and Global Scope

Parameters and variables that are assigned in a called function are said to exist in that functon's *local scope*.
Variables that are assigned outside all functions that are said to exist in the *global scope.* 
A variable that exists in a local scope is called *local variable*, while a variable that exists in the global scope is called *global variable.* 
A variable must be one or the other, it cannnot be both local and global.

Scopes matter for several reasons:

* Code in the global scope cannot use any local variables.
* However, a local scope can access global variables.
* Code in a function’s local scope cannot use variables in any other local scope.
* We can use the same name for different variables if they are in different scopes. That is,there can be a local variable named spam and a global variable also named spam.

### Local Variables Cannot Be Used in the Global Scope


```python
def spam():
    eggs = 1223
```


```python
spam()
```


```python
print(eggs)
```


    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    NameError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)

    <ipython-input-3-15da8c3dc934> in <module>
    ----> 1 print(eggs)
    

    NameError: name 'eggs' is not defined


The error happens because the eggs variable exists only in the local scope created when spam() is called. Once the program execution returns from spam, that local scope is destroyed, and there is no longer a variable named eggs. So when your program tries to run print(eggs), Python gives you an error saying that eggs is not defined. 

### Local Scopes Cannot Use Variables in Other Local Scopes


```python
def spam():
    eggs = 99
    bacon()
    print(eggs)

def bacon():
    han = 101
    eggs = 10000
    print(eggs)


```


```python
spam()
bacon()
```

    101
    99
    101
    

### Global Variables Can Be Read from a Local Scope


```python
def spam():
    print(eggs)
eggs = 42
spam()
print(eggs)
```

    42
    42
    

### Local and Global Variables with the Same Name


```python
def spam():
    eggs = "spam local"
    print(eggs) 
    
def bacon():
    eggs = "bacon local"
    print(eggs)
    spam()
    print(eggs)
    
eggs = "global"

bacon()

print(eggs)

```

    bacon local
    spam local
    bacon local
    global
    

### The Global Statement


```python
def spam():
    global eggs
    eggs = "spam"
    
eggs = "global"
spam()
print(eggs)
```

    spam
    

**Because eggs is declared global at the top of spam()** 
when eggs is set to 'spam', this assignment is done to the globally scoped spam. No local spam variable is created.

There are four rules to tell whether a variable is in a local scope or global scope:

* If a variable is being used in the global scope (that is, outside of all functions), then it is always a global variable.
* If there is a global statement for that variable in a function, it is a global variable
* Otherwise, if the variable is used in an assignment statement in the function, it is a local variable.
* But if the variable is not used in an assignment statement, it is a global variable.


```python
def spam():
    global eggs
    eggs = "spam" # this is the global
    
def bacon():
    eggs = "bacon" # this is the local
    
def ham():
    print(eggs) # this is the global
    
eggs = 42 # this is the global
spam()
print(eggs)


    
```

    spam
    


```python
def spam():
    print(eggs) #ERROR
    eggs = "spam local"
    
eggs = "global"
spam()
```


    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    UnboundLocalError                         Traceback (most recent call last)

    <ipython-input-32-31c3efd53491> in <module>
          4 
          5 eggs = "global"
    ----> 6 spam()
    

    <ipython-input-32-31c3efd53491> in spam()
          1 def spam():
    ----> 2     print(eggs) #ERROR
          3     eggs = "spam local"
          4 
          5 eggs = "global"
    

    UnboundLocalError: local variable 'eggs' referenced before assignment



```python
def spam():
    # print(eggs) #ERROR
    eggs = "spam local"
    print(eggs)
    
eggs = "spam global"
spam()
print(eggs)
```

    spam local
    spam global
    


```python

```
